# Normalizing items

A common scenario when creating n-gram models is to modify items in a way that similar items are considered equivalent.

As an example, when creating a model of `String` you might not want differences in letter case to matter so that the items _WORD_, _word_, _WoRd_, and _wORd_ are all equivalent.

With Tally, there are two approaches for normalizing items.

## Adopting items to TallyNormalizer

Extend your item type to adopt the `TallyNormalizer` protocol and the result from the `normalize()` method will be used instead of the item itself.

Here's an example of the `String` type implementing the `TallyNormalizer` protocol so that all items are converted to lowercase.

````Swift
extension String: TallyNormalizer {
    public func normalized() -> String {
        return self.lowercased()
    }
    // the items 'WORD', 'word', and 'wOrD' are all represented as 'word'
}
````

## Assigning 'normalizer' property to a model

Sometimes you might want to have multiple models of the same type, but have different definition of how normalization occurs, or for some models to use normalization, and other models to not.

In these situations, instead of extending your type to adopt `TallyNormalizer`, assign the `normalizer` closure to each of your models.

Here's an example of two String models, each with it's own approach to normalization.

````Swift
var modelA = Tally<String>()

modelA.normalizer = { item in
    return item.lowercased()
}
// the items 'WORD', 'word', and 'wOrD' are all represented as 'word'

var modelB = Tally<String>()

modelB.normalizer = { item in
    return item.uppercased()
}
// the items 'WORD', 'word', and 'wOrD' are all represented as 'WORD'

````

If an type adopts `TallyNormalizer`, and a model also has the `normalizer` closure defined, then the result from the `normalizer` closure is used instead of the `TallyNormalizer` result.
